you
there are many more advanced learning
algorithms than the regression based
approaches and they generally attempt to
directly optimize a retrieval measure
like a map or indecision
note that the optimization objective
function that we have seen on the
previous slide is not directly related
to retrieval measured by maximizing the
prediction of 1 or 0 we don't
necessarily optimize the ranking of
those documents one can imagine that our
prediction may not be too bad let's say
both are around 0.25 so it's kind of in
the middle of 0 & 1
for the two documents but the ranking
can be wrong so we might have about a
larger value for T 2 and then e 1 so
that won't be good from retrieval
perspective even though bilateral
function it's not bad in contrast we
might have another case where we
predicted values or around the point 9
it's a and by the object in function the
error would be larger but if you can get
the order of the Tulip into character
that's actually a better result so these
new mod master approaches will try to
correct that problem of course then the
Canon is that the optimization problem
will be harder to solve and then
researchers have proposed many solutions
to the problem and you can read more the
reference at the end know more about
these approaches now these learning to
render protists are actual general so
they accounts will be applied many other
ranking problems not just a retrieval
problem so here is the Sun for example
recommender systems computation or by
advertising or summarization and there
are many others that you can probably
encounter in your applications to
summarize this lecture we have talked
about the using machine learning to
combine multiple features so
for ranking without actually the use of
machine learning information retrieval
has started since many decades ago so
for example the rocky feedback approach
that we talked about earlier was machine
learning approach it applied to the
relevant feedback but the most reason
the use of machine learning has been
driven by some changes in the
environment of applications of retrieval
systems first it's mostly driven by the
availability of a lot of training data
in the form of click throughs such they
don't want available before so the data
can provide a lot of useful knowledge
about relevance and machine learning
methods can be applied to leverage this
secondly it's also driven by the need
for combining many features and this is
not only just because there are more
features available on the web that can
be naturally useful to improve the
scoring it's also because by combining
them we can improve the robustness of
ranking so this is desired for combating
spams modern search engines all use some
kind of machine learning techniques
combined many features to optimize
ranking and this is a major feature of
these pollution engines such as Google
or Bing the topic of learning to rank is
still active research topic in the
community and so you can expect to see
new results being developed in the next
few years perhaps
here are some additional readings that
can give you more information about how
learning to ramp works and also some
advanced methods
you